In the paper "Cosmological information in Gaussianised weak lensing signals," Joachimi et al. investigate the effectiveness of various transformations on Gaussianizing a given set of data. More specifically, given a weak lensing convergence map (a 2D plot showing how lensing magnification varies across the sky), Joachimi et al. seek to find the transformation that most closely maps the convergence data to a one-point normal distribution. Data subject to a Gaussian/normal distribution have high signal-to-noise ratios, thus making information extraction from the data more effective; in the case of weak lensing, a high signal-to-noise ratio is important for the sake of placing constraints on the universe's dark matter and dark energy content. Because weak lensing convergence data is nearly lognormal--that is, taking the natural log of the data almost produces a normal distribution--the two most appropriate choices for transformations are the standard logarithmic transformation (k_bar = ln(k + a)) and the Box-Cox transformation, a piece-wise transformation contingent on the two parameters lambda and a, and which reduces to the log transformation when lambda = 0. 

In this paper, Joachimi et al. first derive an expression for the power spectrum of the transformed convergence in terms of the statistics of the original field, and adjust the model to take into account smoothing and noise. Next, they simulate 100 convergence maps and observe various statistics before and after Gaussianizing the data by various means--the various Gaussianization procedures differ by whether the Box-Cox or logarithmic transformation is used, whether the map is smoothed or unsmoothed prior to Gaussianization, and whether shape noise (the inherent ellipticity of galaxies/objects being lensed) is included in the maps. From these statistics, Joachimi et al. are able to perform a likelihood analysis on the maps to calculate constraints on omega_m and sigma_8, two important cosmological parameters. 

Joachimi et al. find that in all cases, the Box-Cox transformation Gaussianizes the convergence maps better than a simple log transformation; however, in some cases, the differences in cosmological parameter constraints between the two transformations are negligibly small. By smoothing the convergence fields in the same way as the fields used for the power spectrum estimation and likelihood analysis, these results are further improved. Additionally, smoothing the models leads to better bounds on the cosmological parameters, putting the parameters within the 2*sigma confidence limit in five of the authors' six test cases. Joachimi et al. also find that, while Box-Cox transformations increase the signal-to-noise ratio of the data by a factor of up to 2.6, this only has a small effect on the strength of cosmological constraints. Furthermore, if galaxy shape noise is added to the maps, then the transformations achieve an increase in signal-to-noise by up to 34%, yet the errors and correlations governing the cosmological parameters are practically unchanged. This thus raises the question of whether Gaussianizing transformations of convergence fields are a viable and worthwhile approach to analyzing weak lensing data; it is the job of future research to determine whether substantial cosmological information can be gained via Gaussianization of data under realistic conditions.